All right. So we've learned a few things.
The measurement update is a weighted sum of the prior belief and the measurement.
The state prediction is the addition of the prior belief's
mean and variance to the motion's mean and variance.
You've coded both of these steps,
and now it's time to add some support code that will call them one after the other,
as long as measurement data is available,
and the robot has motions to implement.
For the purpose of this example,
we will use two arrays to hold the measurement values and motions.
The index of every value in each list represents its timestamp.
The first value in the measurement array is the measurement at time equals zero.
The second, at time equals 1, and so forth.
Here, we have five values for each.
So, we will be able to go through five iterations of the Kalman Filter Cycle.
At each iteration, the Kalman filter will try to estimate the state of the system.
After five iterations, we will see if
the Kalman filter converges on the robot's true value.
We will also use two variables to represent
the variance of the measurements and the variance of the motions.
If you remember, we also require an initial estimate of the robot's position.
In our motion example,
the robot left off at the 35 meter mark so let's use that as our initial estimate.
We must also enter the uncertainty associated with this estimate.
I've been keeping a close eye on our robot,
and I can assure you that it hasn't gone anywhere.
We can use a fairly certain value of four,
but as you'll soon see,
this value isn't quite as critical to a successful outcome as you may initially think.
Your task is to write the code that will
iterally go through the available measurements and
motions and apply a measurement update or a state prediction to each one of them.
That's your last step to implementing a one-dimensional Kalman filter.